New author tutorials (#15990)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/3.0/tutorials/scraping.mdx

---
title: Extract data from websites
description: Use Prefect to fetch and analyze large amounts of data
---

In the [Build a data pipeline](/3.0/tutorials/pipelines) tutorial, you learned how to create resilient and performant data pipelines.
Now you'll learn how to handle data dependencies and ingest large amounts of data by building a GitHub issue analysis pipeline.

> The real world presents additional challenges when dealing with web data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The real world can present additional challenges when dealing with web data:
```

- API requests can fail or give a response with missing or malformed data.
- You need to make multiple dependent API calls.
- You need to ingest data when you don't know in advance how much data is available.

## Set up error handling

Throw and catch errors to handle them gracefully.
For example, if you don't get a 2xx response from an API, throw an exception and log the error.

```python
@task(log_prints=True)
def fetch_page_of_issues(repo: str, page: int = 1) -> Optional[dict]:
    """Fetch a page of issues for a GitHub repository"""
    try:
        response = httpx.get(
            f"https://api.github.com/repos/{repo}/issues",
            params={"page": page, "state": "all", "per_page": 100}
        )
        response.raise_for_status() # Raise an exception if the response is not a 2xx status code
        return response.json()
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error fetching issues for {repo}: {e}")
        return None
```

> <Expandable title="full example">

Reviewer: The expandables are 🔥

Run the following code to see error handling in action:

```python
from typing import List, Optional
import httpx

from prefect import flow, task

@flow(log_prints=True)
def analyze_repo_health(repos: List[str]):
    """Analyze issue health metrics for GitHub repositories"""
    for repo in repos:
        print(f"Analyzing {repo}...")
        
        # Fetch and analyze all issues
        fetch_page_of_issues(repo)

@task(log_prints=True)
def fetch_page_of_issues(repo: str, page: int = 1) -> Optional[dict]:
    """Fetch a page of issues for a GitHub repository"""
    try:
        response = httpx.get(
            f"https://api.github.com/repos/{repo}/issues",
            params={"page": page, "state": "all", "per_page": 100}
        )
        response.raise_for_status() # Raise an exception if the response is not a 2xx status code
        return response.json()
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error fetching issues for {repo}: {e}")
        return None

if __name__ == "__main__":
    analyze_repo_health([
        "PrefectHQ/prefect",
        "this-repo-does-not-exist/404" # This repo will trigger an error
    ])
```
</Expandable>

## Ingest large amounts of data

> Use pagination to fetch large amounts of data and run tasks in parallel to analyze the data efficiently:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use pagination to fetch large amounts of data and run tasks concurrently to analyze the data efficiently:
```

        analyze_issue.submit(issue)
    
    # Wait for all analysis tasks to complete
    for detail in issue_details:
        result = detail.result()
        print(f"Analyzed issue #{result['number']}")
```

<Expandable title="full example">
Run the following code to see pagination and parallel tasks in action:

```python
from typing import List, Optional
import httpx

from prefect import flow, task

@flow(log_prints=True)
def analyze_repo_health(repos: List[str]):
    """Analyze issue health metrics for GitHub repositories"""
    for repo in repos:
        print(f"Analyzing {repo}...")
        
        # Fetch and analyze all issues
        fetch_repo_issues(repo)

@flow
def fetch_repo_issues(repo: str):
    """Fetch all issues for a single repository"""
    all_issues = []
    page = 1
    
    for page in range(1, 3):  # Limit to 2 pages to avoid hitting rate limits
        issues = fetch_page_of_issues(repo, page)
        if not issues or len(issues) == 0:
            break
        all_issues.extend(issues)
        page += 1

    issue_details = []
    for issue in all_issues[:5]:  # Limit to 5 issues to avoid hitting rate limits
        issue_details.append(

>             fetch_issue_details.submit(repo, issue['number'])  # Make requests in parallel

Reviewer: Either inline, or probably below, maybe call out what `.submit` is doing briefly and send folks to another docs page to learn more. It's kind of subtle as is.

Reviewer: Same note where use ".submit" above in short code example.

Author: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/15990/commits/f380af8a709379966080c0c7526392ecff53d88f

I'll augment the "Next steps" section with links to additional resources in a follow-up commit.

Reviewer: This is subtle, but the example is technically doing concurrent execution rather than parallel execution (with Dask or Ray it would be true parallelism).

Author: Okay, I read through https://docs.prefect.io/v3/develop/task-runners more carefully and I think I understand the difference now. The difference is that `submit` uses `ThreadPoolTaskRunner` by default, which uses a thread pool and so the tasks aren't run in a true parallel fashion (distributed across multiple CPUs). cc @aaazzam 

I just pushed a commit which uses the correct language consistently throughout the new tutorials:
https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/15990/commits/9bc36621e4f55f5629dca9d819cd07de7c729b14

        )
    
    details = []
    for issue in issue_details:
        details.append(issue.result())

    return details

@task(log_prints=True)
def fetch_page_of_issues(repo: str, page: int = 1) -> Optional[dict]:
    """Fetch a page of issues for a GitHub repository"""
    try:
        response = httpx.get(
            f"https://api.github.com/repos/{repo}/issues",
            params={"page": page, "state": "all", "per_page": 100}
        )
        response.raise_for_status()
        return response.json()
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error fetching issues for {repo}: {e}")
        return None

@task
def fetch_issue_details(repo: str, issue_number: int) -> dict:
    """Fetch detailed information about a specific issue"""
    response = httpx.get(f"https://api.github.com/repos/{repo}/issues/{issue_number}")
    issue_data = response.json()
    
    return issue_data

if __name__ == "__main__":
    analyze_repo_health([
        "PrefectHQ/prefect",
        "tensorflow/tensorflow",
        "huggingface/transformers"
    ])
```
</Expandable>

> ## Structure your code with dependent subflows and tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Structure your code with dependent nested flows and tasks
```

Esewhere in the docs we refer to them as nested flows, good to keep the consistency.

    try:
        response = httpx.get(
            f"https://api.github.com/repos/{repo}/issues",
            params={"page": page, "state": "all", "per_page": 100}
        )
        response.raise_for_status()
        return response.json()
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error fetching issues for {repo}: {e}")
        return None

@task
def fetch_issue_details(repo: str, issue_number: int) -> dict:
    """Fetch detailed information about a specific issue"""
    response = httpx.get(f"https://api.github.com/repos/{repo}/issues/{issue_number}")
    issue_data = response.json()
    
    return issue_data

@task
def calculate_resolution_rate(issues: List[dict]) -> float:
    """Calculate the percentage of closed issues"""
    if not issues:
        return 0
    closed = sum(1 for issue in issues if issue['state'] == 'closed')
    return (closed / len(issues)) * 100

if __name__ == "__main__":
    analyze_repo_health([
        "PrefectHQ/prefect",
        "tensorflow/tensorflow",
        "huggingface/transformers"
    ])
```
</Expandable>

## Put it all together

Here's the complete flow that combines all of these components.

> We'll also add retries, caching, and rate limiting to make the workflow more robust.

Reviewer: Lots of goodies! I suggest linking each of the words to where the reader can learn more about these ideas, and adding a line about the benefit of each one might not be bad.
